AI Fridays with Vanderbilt Data Science Feb 23, 2022, 5:03 PM Share Do you have data you’d like to use, but aren’t quite sure how to make the most of it? Running into issues with your models, data, or analytical approach and spinning your wheels about what to do? Looking for new partnerships with other people using or interested in data science? Join us Fridays from 10am-4pm starting Friday, January 26th at Vanderbilt Data Science (VDS) for Fridays full of artificial intelligence (AI) and data science (DS)! We have several different options based on your needs, ranging from office hours for shorter questions and updates to a full on deep dive into your data science project. Read more below! Drop-In Consultations (10am – 12pm) Join us for open office hours for feedback, guidance, training, and suggestions on your data science projects. This is a great time to ask about best practices, tooling, methodological direction, coding, and other technical aspects about your ongoing projects. Undergraduates, graduate students, and lab groups engaged in DS research are welcome! Researchers interested in collaboration for grant proposals, compute resources, or training are welcome to drop by and discuss ways that VDS supports DS research. AI Deep Dive (1pm – 2pm) AI Deep Dives are a great time to deeply explore research problems which might be solvable with deep learning. Discuss your ideas with VDS data scientists, other researchers, DS graduate students, and undergraduate students. These are hour-long sessions where together, we brainstorm and formulate solutions, lay out project plans, recruit students and engage potential collaborators for the goal of initiating new projects, new AI project phases, or new AI project directions. Bring your lab groups, fellow startup founders, and fellow colleagues, and together, we’ll pioneer a path towards your solution. Request an AI deep dive here! Demos (3pm – 4pm) Drop by the VDS for demos, a weekly informal session starting at 2pm where you can learn the latest and greatest updates to ongoing data science projects at the VDS. Want some feedback on your projects? You’re welcome to present new ideas, results, and approaches with all participants in a 2-4 minute update on your work. Join us in person or sign up here for a virtual link! Frequently asked questions Are you a faculty member, staff, postdoctoral researcher, graduate student, undergraduate student, or affiliate of Vanderbilt University? Come on by! Feel free to use our indoor and outdoor areas for your DS activities – meet with your project teams in our collaborative space, network with other members of Vanderbilt’s data science community, find new partners for research or startups, and consult with experts in data science. Don’t have a particular project or question, but just interested in data science and want to observe the data science process? AI Fridays take place in the 18th Ave S and Horton Building (formerly known as the Sony Building), so drop by to learn more about ongoing research, innovation in data science, and build your data science community at VU! Your course instructors and teaching assistants are the best resource for help in your coursework. VDS is happy to consult with you on undergraduate research, extracurricular data science projects, or new innovation ideas with the Wond’ry. Please feel free to use our space to meet with your data science project teams, study groups, or to meet others interested in data science! We’re located in the 18th Ave South and Horton building (formerly called the Sony Building), across from the Commons on Peabody’s campus. We’ll be in room A2116 – the main Data Science Team space. Other questions about our AI Fridays, need other times, or need a virtual option for office hours? Please reach out to Jesse Spencer-Smith or Charreau Bell at Vanderbilt Data Science. We look forward to seeing you there! Explore Story Topics Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024