Accelerate your AI - an "Un-Hackathon" Vanderbilt University Data Science, the Atlanta University Center Data Science Initiative, and the Morehouse Center for Broadening Participation in Computing are excited to announce the launch of an inaugural symposium that will ignite the curiosity of students by exploring the ethical implications of generative AI, guided by leaders from Atlanta’s corporate innovators. On this page Overview Vanderbilt University and our HBCU partners in Nashville and Atlanta, led by VU Data Science, AUC Data Science Initiative and the Morehouse Center for Broadening Participation in Computing are excited to collaborate with leading companies to foster innovation and explore ethical AI practices. This ‘un-hackathon’ welcomes all students, regardless of their proficiency in data science or AI, emphasizing ethical AI considerations. Students from eight universities across Atlanta and Nashville, will bring diverse critical thinking skills and perspectives. View the official Event Guide. Sponsors We will be announcing additional sponsors soon. Stay tuned! What Students Should Expect From the Hackathon Vanderbilt University Data Science and VU's Atlanta Hub has built a collaborative partnership with the AUC Data Science Initiative, the Morehouse Center for Broadening Participation in Computing and six of Atlanta's top companies to host a hackathon, with a goal of also having Nashville's HBCUs join this event. Work with students across 8 participating universities and leaders from 6 of Atlanta’s leading companies. Experience a supportive atmosphere encouraging creative problem-solving. Learn from industry leaders through sessions on technical and ethical AI applications, including workforce implications and product development. Grow your network with corporate experts. Receive guidance from company leaders who will support your team throughout the project development process. Benefit from their expertise and personalized feedback. Build connections with peers, mentors, and industry professionals. Learn about internships, hiring opportunities, and professional development. Topics Hackathon Challenge Teaser This year’s hackathon will focus on developing generative AI solutions. Participants will choose a problem to solve, with a suggested focus on national security. Teams will build an LLM-based proof of concept, explaining the problem, its importance, and how AI provides the best solution. The full prompt will be revealed at the start of the hackathon—stay tuned! Winning teams will receive a monetary reward! For all participating students, travel and food is included, and lodging will be provided for Nashville students. All Accepted Students will be notified on OCTOBER 23rd. Program Leaders Why Should Your School Get Involved? Collaborate with event organizers to help shape the topics and activities that will be most beneficial for VU & HBCU students. Students will benefit from hands-on guidance and support from experienced mentors and leaders throughout the event. Engage in speaking opportunities to share your perspectives and inspire fellow participants. Empower your students to connect with industry leaders and explore potential internships. Highlight your university's strengths and achievements to a wider audience across eight universities in both Atlanta & Nashville. Event Highlights More Information As we look forward to this unique collaboration between Vanderbilt University, our HBCU partners in Nashville and Atlanta, and leading companies, we’re excited to explore ethical AI practices together. This ‘un-hackathon’ will provide a platform for students from eight universities across Atlanta and Nashville to contribute their diverse perspectives and critical thinking skills. Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024