Upcoming Data Science Workshops The Data Science Institute and the Initiative on the Future of Learning & Generative AI regularly offer workshops to familiarize students, faculty, and community members with new and exciting data science tools. Workshops are open to the entire Vanderbilt community. Training Your Own Personal Large Language Model TBA, 3:00 – 4:00 pm CT (Virtual) The pace of developments in Generative AI is staggering. Get up-to-date on what new and most important! Audience: Students, Faculty, & Staff Registration Form Coming Soon Running Your Own Private GPT: AI on Your Laptop TBA, 3:00 – 4:00 pm CT (Virtual) The pace of developments in Generative AI is staggering. Get up-to-date on what new and most important! Audience: Students, Faculty, & Staff Registration Form Coming Soon AI Engineering: Training and Running AI Models at Scale TBA, 3:00 – 4:00 pm CT (Virtual) The pace of developments in Generative AI is staggering. Get up-to-date on what new and most important! Audience: Students, Faculty, & Staff Registration Form Coming Soon Diffusion Models: From Art to Proteins TBA, 3:00 – 4:00 pm CT (Virtual) The pace of developments in Generative AI is staggering. Get up-to-date on what new and most important! Audience: Students, Faculty, & Staff Registration Form Coming Soon Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024