Data Science Research Vanderbilt Data Science engages in collaborative efforts in many forms for data science projects with industry, academia, and non-profits. Data Science Team The Data Science (DS) Team supports Vanderbilt Data Science directive by empowering researchers and students to integrate data science tools and techniques into research across all disciplines. We can help you meet your needs through: We’re excited to support you in meeting your data science needs! Fall 2024 Research Opportunities Are you passionate about AI and Data Science? This fall, Vanderbilt Data Science is offering an exciting array of project opportunities where you can make an impact. Whether you're an undergraduate, graduate student, or postdoc, there's a project for you! From AI-driven analysis of galaxies to cutting-edge cybersecurity simulations, these projects are designed to push the boundaries of what's possible with AI. At the Summer AI Showcase, we informed attendees of all the opportunities. Application Deadline: Wednesday, August 28, at 11:59 PM. Research projects include: When submitting your application you'll have the opportunity to select which project(s) you're most interested in. Supporting Your Research Advertise and Promote Your Data Science Research Opportunities to Vanderbilt Students Vanderbilt Data Science is launching a new effort to advertise and promote research opportunities in data science to undergraduates and graduate students at Vanderbilt. These could be research experiences, where a Vanderbilt undergraduate or graduate student works as part of a faculty member’s research team during the academic year or over the summer. They could be immersion experiences, which are now required for all Vanderbilt undergraduates. And they could be semester-long capstone projects, which are required for Master’s students in Data Science at Vanderbilt. Our goal is to help guide students with computational, quantitative, and data science interests and experiences with interesting projects at VU and VUMC. Please contact datascience@vanderbilt.edu with a description of the project, the required skills and experience, contact information, and the like. These research descriptions will eventually be posted to the DSI web site and advertised regularly to students. We plan to regularly update, add, and remove projects and will reach out for new projects and updates a couple of times per year. Note that these could be specific projects looking for specific people with specific skills or they could be general descriptions of the kind of research going on in your group and what general skills students would need to join your lab. These could also be advertisements of fresh and interesting data sets you have available that students could get their hands on, which are often useful for Master’s capstone projects. Faculty are certainly welcome to submit more than one project. If you have any questions, please let us know at datascience@vanderbilt.edu. Data Science Team Contributions Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024