Data Science Mini Grants On this page Overview Vanderbilt Data Science (VDS) invites affiliated faculty to apply for mini grants for the purpose of furthering their data science related research or education. Data science research will fall under one of three categories: Grants may be used for expenses such as purchasing data or licenses for data use, purchasing specialized software or software licenses, bringing visitors to Vanderbilt, hosting workshops at Vanderbilt, supporting the formation of working groups, and travel to conferences or summer schools. Grants may not be used for staff salaries or student stipends and tuition. Most grants are expected to be less than $5k, while grants over $10k will only be awarded in exceptional cases with sufficient justification. Grants may also be requested in the form of computational resources. Vanderbilt Data Science has dedicated compute nodes (both CPU and GPU) at ACCRE that affiliated faculty may apply for to do their research. Eligibility Vanderbilt faculty who are affiliated with Vanderbilt Data Science may apply. Application Procedure To apply for a mini grant, please write a brief (two pages max) proposal that addresses the following Please submit the document to datascience@vanderbilt.edu. Proposals will be evaluated on a rolling basis. Conditions and Reporting Awarded funds must be spent by June 1. Different mechanisms may be used to spend funds, and will be coordinated with the Assistant Director of Vanderbilt Data Science. Barring special circumstances, PIs must agree to make any purchased data available to the broader Vanderbilt community. Note: Vanderbilt Data Science Reserves the Right to Use Any Research Resulting From This Funding for Promotional Purposes. Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024