Data Science for Social Good The Data Science for Social Good (DSSG) program is a ten-week experience where participants work as part of a data science team on a pre-selected project for a not-for-profit organization, Vanderbilt group, or government organization. On this page 2024 Summer Program The application submission deadline has now passed. Applications can be found the the InfoReady System. Program runs Monday, June 3, 2024 – Friday, August 9, 2024. Please direct any questions to: datascience@vanderbilt.edu. Overview The Data Science for Social Good (DSSG) program is a ten-week experience where participants work as part of a data science team on a pre-selected project for a not-for-profit organization, Vanderbilt group, or government organization. In the event that there are multiple Social Good projects, Fellows will be able to rank their preference, and assignments will be made based on project needs, Fellow skills, and preference. The teams will be led by a Vanderbilt staff Data Scientist, and will require close collaboration with the partner organization, participation in weekly planning sessions, and weekly presentations on current work (demos). In addition, participants will be able to attend weekly workshops on essential skills and tools for data scientists. The fellowship is open to current undergraduates and graduate students enrolled at Vanderbilt. Program Highlights Student Support Eligibility Applicants will be asked to provide the following (word limits apply): *All levels of experience and expertise in programming, statistics, and machine learning will be considered for the program. Questions? Please Contact Jesse Spencer-Smith, Chief Data Scientist, at jesse.spencer-smith@vanderbilt.edu. Past Programs Gateways Team Black students and students of color are underrepresented in Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) programs. Research indicates there are 3.5 millions students are missing from these programs nationwide. In this project we will build tools that will enable educators and policymakers to estimate the number of students denied access in their area, and to estimate the economic and societal impact of stronger and more inclusive policies. This project involves the creation of interactive visualization dashboards in Shiny, the building and training of predictive machine learning models, and the development of simulations to explore policy implications. Our partner is Prof. Gil Whiting, Associate Professor of African American and Diaspora Studies, Director of the Scholar Identity Institute. https://www.education.purdue.edu/geri/new-publications/gifted-education-in-the-united-states/ NashZero Metro Nashville wants to be solid landfill neutral by 2050. But development, esp. redevelopment, creates a large amount of solid waste. They would like to be able to predict the volume of solid waste based development, teardowns permits, perhaps further out, with economic growth, gentrification. They want to be able to estimate the impact of various or operational decisions. Our partner for this project is Metro Nashville Public Works. https://www.nashville.gov/Public-Works/Waste-and-Recycling/Zero-Waste-Master-Plan.aspx Legal Assistance The need for legal assistance across Tennessee outpaces the capacity of available lawyers. Legal representation is more available in urban than in rural counties, and the magnitude and type of unmet needs in rural counties is unknown. In this project, we will build predictive models to estimate the number and types of legal assistance needs in Tennessee by county, provide invaluable guidance to state and national legal assistance agencies. Our partner is the Tennessee Alliance for Legal Services. https://www.tals.org/ Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024