Data Science Vanderbilt Data Science is a leading research institution for AI and Data Science studies, whose collaborations with a variety of researchers across many disciplines at Vanderbilt University create lifelong communities and strong relationships at Vanderbilt and beyond. Our Vision In August 2018 Vanderbilt launched a new trans-institutional Data Science Institute in response to a report issued by the Data Science Visions working group and solicited by the Provost. Through our research and collaborations we aim to be known nationally for our diversity and unique emphasis on next-generation models, while studying the impact of these models on society and ethics. Our top-ranked education programs provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to thrive in the ever-changing field of AI and Data Science. Finally, we are committed to partnering with local and regional nonprofits to create solutions for social good that have a positive impact on our community. Master's Degree in Data Science Vanderbilt Data Science offers a comprehensive, in-person Data Science program that focuses on real-world applications. Our curriculum is tailored to address the challenges of the Data Science field, ensuring our students are well-prepared for their future careers. Data Science Research Vanderbilt Data Science engages in collaborative efforts in many forms for data science projects with industry, academia, and non-profits. Upcoming Events News How Can We Help? Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024