FAQs GRE, GMAT, or MCAT scores are optional. We use a holistic evaluation process, however, which is not heavily influenced by the GRE scores. Therefore, your application will be reviewed the same if you submit GRE scores or not. The TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) is required for all applicants whose native language is not English and who have not received a degree at an English-speaking university. If you have graduated from a University in the United States, the TOEFL requirement is waived. Please be sure to still self-report your TOEFL scores used to gain entry to your prior US institution. The Vanderbilt institutional code to which TOEFL scores should be sent is 1871. The IELTS (International English Language Testing System) is accepted. Vanderbilt University Medical Center only accepts scores submitted electronically by the IELTS test center. No paper test report forms are accepted. An institutional code is NOT required. Please contact the test center directly where you took the IELTS test and request that your test scores be sent electronically using the IELTS system. All IELTS test centers worldwide are able to send scores electronically to our institution. Our priority application deadline for scholarships is December 15th. Final application deadline is February 15th. We will have a limited amount of tuition fellowships available for each incoming class. We do not pre-screen applicants. If you are interested, you are encouraged to apply. The Admissions Committee reviews all applications. Yes. We treat international applicants the same as U.S. citizens. We do not accept applications for the spring semester. Students may visit the campus on their own accord, but we strongly encourage students to first submit an application and get feedback from the Admission Committee before visiting. FREE! Our program application is free to all those who wish to submit. For application review purposes, the admissions committee will accept unofficial documents. However, if you are accepted and choose to enroll, you will be required to send official documents to the University Registrar. We do ask that international students provide WES translated and verified transcripts. If they are not verified when submitting, we ask for you to include the US conversion equivalent of grades. For application review purposes, the admissions committee will accept unofficial documents. However, if you are accepted and choose to enroll, you will be required to send official documents to the University Registrar. If you are accepted into the Data Science master’s program, you may defer your acceptance to the next academic year. If you need a deferral for more than one year, you will need to reapply to the program. Deposits are not required at the time of deferral, however, both deposits of $500 must be paid by their due dates (April 15th and June 15th) either in the year you are accepted or your matriculation year. View our offerings HERE! You may contact Graduate Program Manager, Amber Douglass, at datascience-grad@vanderbilt.edu. Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024