Masters in Data Science At Vanderbilt, you’ll have access to world-class faculty, strong connections to industry, and an innovative curriculum designed to be computationally progressive with a blend of statistical principles, but accessible to a variety of educational backgrounds. About the M.S. in Data Science Program Data science is an interdisciplinary field focused on extracting knowledge and enabling discovery from complex data. It represents a fusion of principles from Statistics and Computer Science that are applied in domain-specific contexts. As such, critical thinking, communication, and domain-specific knowledge are essential skills. In fact, data science skills are­­­­­­­ now one of the most sought-after skill sets for graduates in a wide variety of quantitative, computational, and scientific disciplines. This is a fully in person master’s program. Classes are held Monday-Thursdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Our Goal Is to Yield Well-Rounded Data Scientists Who Can: Discover More About the Masters Program Eligibility We seek students with unique academic backgrounds and computational experiences. Curriculum We combine computation, data analysis, and ethics to shape students into well rounded data scientists. Should you get a Master’s Degree in Data Science? A faculty perspective. Written by Vanderbilt Data Science Director of Graduate Studies, Dr. Jesse Blocher, featured in Toward Data Science Tuition, Fees & Scholarships Review cost of attendance and ways to help finance your degree. Resources Career and student resources to prepare you for success. Become a Commodore As a commodore, you’ll be living and learning in the heart of Nashville, one of the fastest-growing cities in the United States. Nashville is also ranked as the 3rd best city for young professionals. Data science jobs in Middle Tennessee are growing faster than the qualified population and with a strong community built around healthcare, entertainment, and technology, the future for data scientists is bright. The Washington Post has ranked Nashville top 2 in the nation for hottest job market in 2023. Contact Us 1400 18th Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37212 datascience-grad@vanderbilt.edu (615) 343-5716 Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024