Admissions Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. If you have questions about your eligibility or the application requirements, please visit our FAQ page. On this page Fall 2025 Applications Applications open August 1, 2024 for the Fall 2025 cycle. There is no application fee, it is free to apply! Round 1 Deadline | January 3, 2025 The Round 1 deadline is our priority deadline for scholarships. Round 2 Deadline | February 15, 2025 This is the last deadline for Fall 2025. Applicant Eligibility We encourage candidates with strong academic backgrounds to apply. Students must show evidence of programming skills, which can be demonstrated in multiple ways (coursework either at university or online, professional experience, etc.). Students must have a four-year Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to a U.S. Bachelor’s degree) to be eligible to apply. For students who do not have formal training in quantitative courses (Programming, Calculus, Linear Algebra and/or Statistics), the program will offer boot camps to help prepare students for their classes. While these boot camps are available to all students, selected students may be required to attend in order to boost their skills and help them succeed in our core courses. Students with strong quantitative backgrounds such as multivariable calculus, linear algebra, computer science, advanced programming techniques, calculus-based probability, calculus-based statistical inference, statistical regression techniques will be well-placed in our rigorous curriculum. Application Requirements How to Apply Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024