Career Resources On this page Data Science Masters Career Management Center At the Data Science Institute, we’re committed to preparing the students in our MS Data Science program for success in their chosen careers. Our partnership with the Owen Graduate School Career Management Center offers Data Science students personalized assistance from the moment they are admitted into the program, through graduation and their post-DSI careers. Employed Within 90 Days of Graduation Class of 2022 Average Data Scientist Salary Average Data Analyst Salary Career Coaching Our dedicated career coach, Brook Meissner, works directly with our Data Science MS program students to help them navigate their post-college career. In addition to Brook, Waqas Haider specializes in assisting students with the initial refinement of their resumes and cover letters. Brook Meissner View profile Waqas Haider View profile Employer Relations Heather Yockey manages and develops Employer Relations & Recruiting for our Master of Data Science program. Heather works to build strong relationships with employers, understanding their needs, and identifying opportunities to connect them with our talented students. She ensures students have access to a diverse range of employment opportunities and are well-equipped to succeed in their chosen careers. Alumni Success Stories Teddy Weaver Vanderbilt DSI MS Data Science 2021Data Scientist and Engineering, Thyme Care Lori Chiu Vanderbilt DSI MS Data Science 2021Member Experience Senior Analyst, Tinder Meena Muthusubramanian Vanderbilt DSI MS Data Science 2022Data Scientist, Intel Corporation Networking Searching for and landing a job can be a stressful and time consuming task. And unfortunately, your resume can sometimes be one of thousands in the HR algorithms. A better way to utilize your time might be investing in networking. Here are some places to get started with networking to accelerate your career. Data Science Institute Workshops Looking to hone your skills? Join our in-house data science team as they lead you through hands-on workshops during the semester. A listing of current and past workshops can be found here. Student Resources Here are few curated links that might help you as a Vanderbilt Data Science Student. If you have additional questions that are not addressed here, please let us know! Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024