Data Science Resources & Events Discover a world where data science and artificial intelligence converge to create innovative solutions. Vanderbilt Data Science is your gateway to the latest in AI research, educational opportunities, and collaborative projects. On this page AI Days 2025 AI is now essential for research, education and industry in multiple areas. In this two-day event, we’ll cover essential topics in workshops, share research and breaking developments, and showcase work by students at Vanderbilt. We’ll cover the foundations of AI to equip you with the skills necessary to train others on how to use the technology confidently. And you’ll also learn how to develop cutting-edge AI models through training and novel architecture development. Vanderbilt Data Science invites you to join us for the second ever, "AI Days" on March 5th, 2025 - March 6th, 2025 at the VU Student Life Center. AI YOU CAN USE AI Days offers attendees hands-on experience with the latest AI models through interactive workshops, while providing insight into the latest research and applications in education and industry. The event includes panels with thought leaders and insights from industry leaders in various sessions. This event is designed to expand participants' AI skills and provide networking opportunities with professionals in the field. Date: Tuesday, March 5th-6th, 2024, 9:00 – 5:00 Central TimeLocation: VU Student Life Center, (310 25th Ave S) The event will cover essential topics such as: Special emphasis will be placed on: The event will follow this schedule: Morning Session: Train the Trainer The morning kicks off with a series of engaging sessions with a focus on AI’s core principles and applications: Afternoon Session: Building, Training, and Running Custom AI Models The afternoon is dedicated to more specialized topics, with a focus on the practical aspects of AI model development: To secure your spot at AI training day register here. We look forward to an engaging and informative session that promises to elevate your AI skills and knowledge. AI Fridays at the DSI Every Friday from 10am to 4pm, starting January 26th, the DSI opens its doors for a series of AI and data science-focused activities. Whether you’re struggling with data, seeking advice on models, or looking for data science partnerships, AI Fridays have something for everyone: We're located in the 18th Ave South and Horton building (formerly called the Sony Building), across from the Commons on Peabody's campus. We'll be in room A2116 - the main Data Science Team space. AI Fridays are open to Vanderbilt University faculty, staff, researchers, and students. Join us at the 18th Ave S and Horton Building to dive into data science, find new collaborators, and engage with the DSI community. AI Showcase: Experience the Future Join us on August 23, 2024, for an afternoon showcasing Vanderbilt’s brightest minds in artificial intelligence. The AI Summer Showcase features student-led innovations that were worked on over the summer, providing a platform for the next generation of AI pioneers to present their projects. Whether you’re deeply embedded in the tech world or simply curious about the future of AI, this event promises to engage and inspire. Attendees can look forward to interactive presentations, networking opportunities, and a celebration of technological advancement.Read our AI Showcase 2024 recap Watch our AI Showcase 2024 recap AI Summer This Summer, dive deep into the world of AI with our intensive data science program. From understanding the basics of large language models like ChatGPT to deploying them for real-world applications, our program covers it all. Aimed at researchers, educators, and students, the AI Summer program is a perfect opportunity to enhance your skills, collaborate on projects, and contribute to the field of AI. With limited capacity, priority is given to those with a clear research or educational project in mind. Join us for a transformative experience designed to push the boundaries of AI research and application. Past Events & Data Science Colloquia AI Revolutions Symposium Vanderbilt Data Science's AI Revolutions Symposium will be a two-day event, beginning with the virtual workshops on March 27th. These virtual workshops include: The in-person sessions on March 28th, including featured speakers, will last all day. The event will be held at the Wyatt Rotunda on Peabody’s campus. Speakers include: A happy hour will follow. To register, please use this form. Spring Data Science Colloquia Fall Data Science Colloquia Spring Data Science Colloquia 2019 Symposium Friday, April 26, 2019 If you attended our 2019 symposium, thanks! If you were unable to make it, we are sorry to have missed you. Below are the recordings to all of the sessions. Program Agenda Fall Data Science Colloquia 2018 Symposium Friday, March 30, 2018 8:00-9:45am – Student Poster Session & Breakfast (lobby outside Flynn auditorium) Data Science Colloquia Visual Trumpery Alberto Cairo, U. Miami | September 20 Data Science: the What, Why, and How of my Transition from Science to Tech Cameron McBride, Rubicon Project | May 4 Planetary Science in a Data Rich Era Daniel Tamayo, CITA | April 13 Building Your Applied Data Science Toolkit Brian Johnson | March 16 Data Science Colloquia Big Data & Analytics – Driving Change at Nissan Danielle Beringer, Nissan | December 1 Data Science in Practice: Essential Skills and Training for an Evolving Field Jesse Spencer-Smith, HCA | October 5 Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024