Undergraduate Summer Research Program Our goal is to encourage and enhance student-faculty mentoring and joint research efforts in data science through this program. On this page 2024 Summer Program The application submission deadline has now passed. Applications can be found the the InfoReady System. Program runs Monday, June 3, 2024 – Friday, August 9, 2024. Please direct any questions to: datascience@vanderbilt.edu. Overview The Vanderbilt Data Science Institute Summer Research Program (DSI – SRP) provides Vanderbilt undergraduate students with the opportunity to engage in 10 weeks of full-time data science focused research in collaboration with any full-time Vanderbilt faculty member during the summer. The goal of DSI – SRP is to encourage and enhance student-faculty mentoring and joint research efforts in data science. DSI – SRP fellows will come from a diverse range of backgrounds and domains. Proposed research is welcome from: Vanderbilt Data Science partners with other campus initiatives to offer co-sponsored fellowships. All fellowship recipients, regardless of their source of funding, will participate in all DSI-SRP related activities over the summer. Program Highlights Student Support Important Eligibility Application Procedure Applicants will be asked to provide the following (stated word limits apply): Questions? Please contact us at datascience@vanderbilt.edu Past Programs Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024