Undergraduate Data Science The minor in Data Science prepares students for advanced coursework in statistics and data analysis, scientific computing and simulation, machine learning and visualization, and high performance computing and big data. Undergraduate Data Science Minor Vanderbilt recently launched a new trans-institutional undergraduate Data Science Minor that spans the Blair School of Music, the College of Arts and Science, the School of Engineering, and Peabody College and is affiliated with the Vanderbilt Data Science. Undergraduates in Data Science are introduced to the fundamentals of this interdisciplinary field with coursework in computer programming, statistics, machine learning and visualization, interwoven with ethical considerations of collecting, curating, analyzing, visualizing, and interpreting data. Students in any major or minor at Vanderbilt can help prepare themselves for future education or employment in Data Science with foundational courses in mathematics, statistics, and computation, along with a variety of elective courses. Click here for information about the Undergraduate Data Science Program. Data Science is an emerging interdisciplinary field whose goal is to extract knowledge and enable discovery from complex data using a fusion of computation, mathematics, statistics, and machine learning. Datasets can be as varied as maps of the known universe, MRI images, human genomes, medical records, stock market transactions, educational data, historical texts, infrastructure systems, or website clickstream data. Over the coming decades, Data Science is expected to have significant impacts on basic and applied research in the sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities, and engineering as well as impact all sectors of the economy from health care to education, government, transportation, finance, manufacturing, construction, and urban planning. Data Science has the potential to improve individual and community health and education; develop smart communities that enable efficient circulation of people, goods, and services; enable informed decision making in public and private sectors; and enhance environmental sustainability and overall quality of life. Given the wide range of applications and potential benefits, the powerful tools and techniques of Data Science must be used effectively, ethically, and responsibly. Undergraduate Opportunities Summer Research Immersion Data Science for Social Good Events Related Undergraduate Programs and Courses Students may also be interested in undergraduate minors in Quantitative Methods or in Scientific Computing. In addition, students in any major or minor at Vanderbilt can help prepare themselves for future education or employment in Data Science with foundational courses in mathematics, statistics, computation, machine learning, or visualization, along with a variety of elective courses. Nashville, Tennessee 37240 615-322-7311 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) © 2024